### Mixing positional and keyword arguments

You can mix both fashions if you want - there is only one unbreakable rule: you have to put **positional arguments before keyword arguments**.

If you think for a moment, you'll certainly guess why.

To show you how it works, we'll use the following simple three-parameter function:

```python
def adding(a, b, c):
    print(a, "+", b, "+", c, "=", a + b + c)
```

Its purpose is to evaluate and present the sum of all its arguments.

The function, when invoked in the following way:

```python
adding(1, 2, 3)
```

will output:

`1 + 2 + 3 = 6`

It was - as you may suspect - a pure example of **positional argument passing**.
<hr>

Of course, you can replace such an invocation with a purely keyword variant, like this:

```python
adding(c = 1, a = 2, b = 3)
```

Our program will output a line like this:

`2 + 3 + 1 = 6`

Note the order of the values.
<hr>

Let's try to mix both styles now.

Look at the function invocation below:

```python
adding(3, c = 1, b = 2)
```

Let's analyze it:

- the argument (`3`) for the a parameter is passed using the positional way;
- the arguments for `c` and `b` are specified as keyword ones.

This is what you'll see in the console:

`3 + 2 + 1 = 6`
<hr>

Be careful, and beware of mistakes. If you try to pass more than one value to one argument, all you'll get is a runtime error.

Look at the invocation below - it seems that we've tried to set `a` twice:

```python
adding(3, a = 1, b = 2)
```

Python's response:

`TypeError: adding() got multiple values for argument 'a'`

Look at the snipet below. A code like this is fully correct, but it doesn't make much sense:

```python
adding(4, 3, c = 2)
```

Everything is right, but leaving in just one keyword argument looks a bit weird - what do you think?
<hr>

### Parametrized functions - more details

It happens at times that a particular parameter's values are in use more often than others. Such arguments may have their **default (predefined) values** taken into consideration when their corresponding arguments have been omitted.

They say that the most popular English last name is _Smith_. Let's try to take this into account.

The default parameter's value is set using clear and pictorial syntax:

```python
def introduction(first_name, last_name="Smith"):
    print("Hello, my name is", first_name, last_name)
```

You only have to extend the parameter's name with the `=` sign, followed by the default value.

Let's invoke the function as usual:

```python
introduction("James", "Doe")
```

Can you guess the output of the program? Run it and check if you were right.

**Output**

`Hello, my name is James Doe`

And? Everything looks the same, but when you invoke the function in a way that looks a bit suspicious at first sight, like this:

```python
introduction("Henry")
```

or this:

```python
introduction(first_name="William")
```

there will be no error, and both invocations will succeed, while the console will show the following output:

```
Hello, my name is Henry Smith
Hello, my name is William Smith
```

Test it.
<hr>

You can go further if it's useful. Both parameters have their default values now, look at the code below:

```python
def introduction(first_name="John", last_name="Smith"):
    print("Hello, my name is", first_name, last_name)
```

This makes the following invocation absolutely valid:

```python
introduction()
```

And this is the expected output:

`Hello, my name is John Smith`
<hr>

If you use one keyword argument, the remaining one will take the default value:

```python
introduction(last_name="Hopkins")
```

The output is:

`Hello, my name is John Hopkins`

Test it.

Congratulations - you have just learned the basic ways of communicating with functions.
