### Adding elements to a list: `append()` and `insert()`

A new element may be glued to the end of the existing list:

`list.append(value)`

Such an operation is performed by a method named `append()`. It takes its argument's value and puts it **at the end of the list** which owns the method.

The list's length then increases by one.
<hr>

The `insert()` method is a bit smarter - it can add a new element **at any place in the list**, not only at the end.

`list.insert(location, value)`

It takes two arguments:

- the first shows the required location of the element to be inserted; note: all the existing elements that occupy locations to the right of the new element (including the one at the indicated position) are shifted to the right, in order to make space for the new element;
- the second is the element to be inserted.

Look at the code in the editor. See how we use the `append()` and `insert()` methods. Pay attention to what happens after using `insert()`: the former first element is now the second, the second the third, and so on.

```python
numbers = [111, 7, 2, 1]
print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

###

numbers.append(4)

print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

###

numbers.insert(0, 222)
print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

#
```

**Output**

```
4
[111, 7, 2, 1]
5
[111, 7, 2, 1, 4]
6
[222, 111, 7, 2, 1, 4]
```
<hr>

Add the following snippet after the last line of code in the editor:

`numbers.insert(1, 333)`

Print the final list content to the screen and see what happens. The snippet above snippet inserts `333` into the list, making it the second element. The former second element becomes the third, the third the fourth, and so on.
<hr>

### Adding elements to a list: continued

You can **start a list's life by making it empty** (this is done with an empty pair of square brackets) and then adding new elements to it as needed.

Take a look at the snippet in the editor. Try to guess its output after the `for` loop execution. Run the program to check if you were right.

```python
my_list = []  # Creating an empty list.

for i in range(5):
    my_list.append(i + 1)

print(my_list)
```

It'll be a sequence of consecutive integer numbers from `1` (you then add one to all the appended values) to `5`.

We've modified the snippet a bit:

```python
my_list = []  # Creating an empty list.

for i in range(5):
    my_list.insert(0, i + 1)

print(my_list)
```

What will happen now? Run the program and check if this time you were right, too.

<details>
<summary>Output</summary>

```
[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]
```
</details>

You should get the same sequence, but in **reverse order** (this is the merit of using the `insert()` method).
