### Indexing lists

How do you change the value of a chosen element in the list?

Let's **assign a new value of** `111` **to the first element** in the list. We do it this way:

```python
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("New list content: ", numbers)  # Current list content.
```
<hr>

And now we want **the value of the fifth element to be copied to the second element** - can you guess how to do it?

```python
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("\nPrevious list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

numbers[1] = numbers[4]  # Copying value of the fifth element to the second.
print("New list content:", numbers)  # Printing current list content.
```

The value inside the brackets which selects one element of the list is called an **index**, while the operation of selecting an element from the list is known as **indexing**.

We're going to use the `print()` function to print the list content each time we make the changes. This will help us follow each step more carefully and see what's going on after a particular list modification.

> [!NOTE]
> all the indices used so far are literals. Their values are fixed at runtime, but **any expression can be the index**, too. This opens up lots of possibilities.
<hr>

### Accessing list content

Each of the list's elements may be accessed separately. For example, it can be printed:

`print(numbers[0]) # Accessing the list's first element.`

Assuming that all of the previous operations have been completed successfully, the snippet will send `111` to the console.

As you can see in the editor, the list may also be printed as a whole - just like here:

`print(numbers)  # Printing the whole list.`

As you've probably noticed before, Python decorates the output in a way that suggests that all the presented values form a list. The output from the example snippet above looks like this:

`[111, 1, 7, 2, 1]`
<hr>

### The len() function

The **length of a list** may vary during execution. New elements may be added to the list, while others may be removed from it. This means that the list is a very dynamic entity.

If you want to check the list's current length, you can use a function named `len()` (its name comes from _length_).

The function takes the **list's name as an argument, and returns the number of elements currently stored** inside the list (in other words - the list's length).

Look at the last line of code in the editor, run the program and check what value it will print to the console. Can you guess?

```python
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("\nPrevious list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

numbers[1] = numbers[4]  # Copying value of the fifth element to the second.
print("Previous list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

print("\nList length:", len(numbers))  # Printing the list's length.
```

<details>
<summary>Output</summary>

```
Original list content: [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]

Previous list content: [111, 5, 7, 2, 1]
Previous list content: [111, 1, 7, 2, 1]

List length: 5
```
</details>
