### Questions and answers

A programmer writes a program and **the program asks questions**.

A computer executes the program and **provides the answers**. The program must be able to **react according to the received answers**.

Fortunately, computers know only two kinds of answers:

- yes, this is true;
- no, this is false.

You will never get a response like _Let me think...., I don't know,_ or _Probably yes, but I don't know for sure_.

**To ask questions, Python uses a set of very special operators**. Let's go through them one after another, illustrating their effects on some simple examples.
<hr>

### Comparison: equality operator

Question: **are two values equal**?

To ask this question, you use the `==` (equal equal) operator.

Don't forget this important distinction:

- `=` is an **assignment operator**, e.g., `a = b` assigns `a` with the value of `b`;
- `==` is the question _are these values equal?_; `a == b` **compares** `a` and `b`.

It is a **binary operator with left-sided binding**. It needs two arguments and **checks if they are equal**.
<hr>

### Exercises

Now let's ask a few questions. Try to guess the answers.
<hr>

**Question #1**: What is the result of the following comparison?

`2 == 2`

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>

`True` - of course, 2 is equal to 2. Python will answer `True` (remember this pair of predefined literals, `True` and `False` - they're Python keywords, too).
</details>
<hr>

**Question #2**: What is the result of the following comparison?

`2 == 2.`

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>

This question is not as easy as the first one. Luckily, Python is able to convert the integer value into its real equivalent, and consequently, the answer is `True`.
</details>
<hr>

**Question #3**: What is the result of the following comparison?

`1 == 2`

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>

This should be easy. The answer will be (or rather, always is) `False`.
</details>
