### The print() function - instructions

You have already seen a computer program that contains one function invocation. A function invocation is one of many possible kinds of Python **instructions**.

Of course, any complex program usually contains many more instructions than one. The question is: how do you couple more than one instruction into the Python code?

Python's syntax is quite specific in this area. Unlike most programming languages, Python requires that **there cannot be more than one instruction in a line**.

A line can be empty (i.e., it may contain no instruction at all) but it must not contain two, three or more instructions. This is strictly prohibited.

> [!NOTE]
> Python makes one exception to this rule - it allows one instruction to spread across more than one line (which may be helpful when your code contains complex constructions).

Let's expand the code a bit, you can see it in the editor. Run it and note what you see in the console.

```python
print("The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.")
print("Down came the rain and washed the spider out.")
```

Your Python console should now look like this:

```shell
The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.
Down came the rain and washed the spider out.
```

This is a good opportunity to make some observations:

- the program **invokes the `print()` function twice**, and you can see two separate lines in the console - this means that `print()` begins its output from a new line each time it starts its execution; you can change this behavior, but you can also use it to your advantage;
- each `print()` invocation contains a different string, as its argument and the console content reflects it - this means that **the instructions in the code are executed in the same order** in which they have been placed in the source file; no next instruction is executed until the previous one is completed (there are some exceptions to this rule, but you can ignore them for now)
<hr>

We've changed the example a bit - we've added one **empty `print()`** function invocation. We call it empty because we haven't delivered any arguments to the function.

```python
print("The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.")
print()
print("Down came the rain and washed the spider out.")
```

You can see it in the editor window. Run the code.

What happens?

If everything goes right, you should see something like this:

```
The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.

Down came the rain and washed the spider out.
```

As you can see, the empty `print()` invocation is not as empty as you may have expected - it does output an empty line, or (this interpretation is also correct) its output is just a newline.

This is not the only way to produce a **newline** in the output console. We're now going to show you another way.
