### The print() function - using multiple arguments

So far we have tested the `print()` function behavior with no arguments, and with one argument. It's also worth trying to feed the print() function with more than one argument.

Look at the editor window. This is what we're going to test now:

```python
print("The itsy bitsy spider" , "climbed up" , "the waterspout.")
```

There is one `print()` function invocation, but it contains **three arguments**. All of them are strings.

The arguments are **separated by commas**. We've surrounded them with spaces to make them more visible, but it's not really necessary, and we won't be doing it anymore.

In this case, the commas separating the arguments play a completely different role than the comma inside the string. The former is a part of Python's syntax, the latter is intended to be shown in the console.

If you look at the code again, you'll see that there are no spaces inside the strings.

Run the code and see what happens.

The console should now be showing the following text:

`The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.`

The spaces, removed from the strings, have appeared again. Can you explain why?

Two conclusions emerge from this example:

- a `print()` function invoked with more than one argument **outputs them all on one line**;
- the `print()` function **puts a space between the outputted arguments** on its own initiative.
<hr>

### The print() function - the positional way of passing the arguments

Now that you know a bit about `print()` function customs, we're going to show you how to change them.

```python
print("My name is", "Python.")
print("Monty Python.")
```

You should be able to predict the output without running the code in the editor.

The way in which we are passing the arguments into the `print()` function is the most common in Python, and is called **the positional way** (this name comes from the fact that the meaning of the argument is dictated by its position, e.g., the second argument will be outputted after the first, not the other way round).

Run the code and check if the output matches your predictions.

```shell
My name is Python.
Monty Python.
```
<hr>

### The print() function - the keyword arguments

Python offers another mechanism for the passing of arguments, which can be helpful when you want to convince the `print()` function to change its behavior a bit.

We aren't going to explain it in depth right now. We plan to do this when we talk about functions. For now, we simply want to show you how it works. Feel free to use it in your own programs.

The mechanism is called **keyword arguments**. The name stems from the fact that the meaning of these arguments is taken not from its location (position) but from the special word (keyword) used to identify them.

The `print()` function has two keyword arguments that you can use for your purposes. The first of them is named `end`.

In the editor window you can see a very simple example of using a keyword argument.

```python
print("My name is", "Python.", end=" ")
print("Monty Python.")
```

In order to use it, it is necessary to know some rules:

- a keyword argument consists of three elements: a **keyword** identifying the argument (`end` here); an **equal sign** (`=`); and a **value** assigned to that argument;
- any keyword arguments have to be put **after the last positional argument** (this is very important)

In our example, we have made use of the `end` keyword argument, and set it to a string containing one space.

The console should now be showing the following text:

`My name is Python. Monty Python.`
<hr>

And now it's time to try something more difficult.

If you look carefully, you'll see that we've used the `end` argument, but the string assigned to it is empty (it contains no characters at all).

```python
print("My name is ", end="")
print("Monty Python.")
```

What will happen now? Run the program in the editor to find out.

As the end argument has been set to nothing, the print() function outputs nothing too, once its positional arguments have been exhausted.

The console should now be showing the following text:

`My name is Monty Python.`

> [!NOTE]
> no newlines have been sent to the output.

The string assigned to the `end` keyword argument can be of any length. Experiment with it if you want.
<hr>

We've said previously that the `print()` function separates its outputted arguments with spaces. This behavior can be changed, too.

The **keyword argument** that can do this is named `sep` (like _separator_).

Look at the code in the editor, and run it.

`print("My", "name", "is", "Monty", "Python.", sep="-")`

The `sep` argument delivers the following results:

`My-name-is-Monty-Python.`

The `print()` function now uses a dash, instead of a space, to separate the outputted arguments.

> [!NOTE]
> the `sep` argument's value may be an empty string, too. Try it for yourself.
<hr>

Both keyword arguments may be **mixed in one invocation**, just like here in the editor window.

```python
print("My", "name", "is", sep="_", end="*")
print("Monty", "Python.", sep="*", end="*\n")
```

The example doesn't make much sense, but it visibly presents the interactions between `end` and `sep`.

`My_name_is*Monty*Python.*`

Now that you understand the `print()` function, you're ready to consider how to store and process data in Python.

Without `print()`, you wouldn't be able to see any results.
