### The print() function - the escape and newline characters

We've modified the code again. Look at it carefully.

There are two very subtle changes - we've inserted a strange pair of characters inside the rhyme. They look like this: `\n`.

```python
print("The itsy bitsy spider\nclimbed up the waterspout.")
print()
print("Down came the rain\nand washed the spider out.")
```

Interestingly, while **you can see two characters, Python sees one**.

The backslash (`\`) has a very special meaning when used inside strings - this is called **the escape character**.

The word _escape_ should be understood specifically - it means that the series of characters in the string escapes for the moment (a very short moment) to introduce a special inclusion.

In other words, the backslash doesn't mean anything in itself, but is only a kind of announcement, that the next character after the backslash has a different meaning too.

The letter `n` placed after the backslash comes from the word _newline_.

Both the backslash and the _n_ form a special symbol named **a newline character**, which urges the console to start a **new output line**.

Run the code. Your console should now look like this:

```shell
The itsy bitsy spider
climbed up the waterspout.

Down came the rain
and washed the spider out.
```

As you can see, two newlines appear in the nursery rhyme, in the places where the `\n` have been used.
<hr>

This convention has two important consequences:

1. If you want to put just one backslash inside a string, don't forget its escaping nature - you have to double it, e.g., such an invocation will cause an error:

   ```python
   print("\")
   ```

   while this one won't

   ```python
   print("\\")
   ```
2. Not all escape pairs (the backslash coupled with another character) mean something.
