### Looping your code with `for`

Another kind of loop available in Python comes from the observation that sometimes it's more important to **count the "turns" of the loop** than to check the conditions.

Imagine that a loop's body needs to be executed exactly one hundred times. If you would like to use the `while` loop to do it, it may look like this:

```python
i = 0
while i < 100:
    # do_something()
    i += 1
```

It would be nice if somebody could do this boring counting for you. Is that possible?

Of course it is - there's a special loop for these kinds of tasks, and it is named `for`.

Actually, the `for` loop is designed to do more complicated tasks - **it can "browse" large collections of data item by item**. We'll show you how to do that soon, but right now we're going to present a simpler variant of its application.
<hr>

Take a look at the snippet:

```python
for i in range(100):
    # do_something()
    pass
```

There are some new elements. Let us tell you about them:

- the _for_ keyword opens the `for` loop; note - there's no condition after it; you don't have to think about conditions, as they're checked internally, without any intervention;
- any variable after the _for_ keyword is the **control variable** of the loop; it counts the loop's turns, and does it automatically;
- the _in_ keyword introduces a syntax element describing the range of possible values being assigned to the control variable;
- the `range()` function (this is a very special function) is responsible for generating all the desired values of the control variable; in our example, the function will create (we can even say that it will **feed** the loop with) subsequent values from the following set: 0, 1, 2 .. 97, 98, 99; note: in this case, the `range()` function starts its job from 0 and finishes it one step (one integer number) before the value of its argument;
- note the _pass_ keyword inside the loop body - it does nothing at all; it's an **empty instruction** - we put it here because the `for` loop's syntax demands at least one instruction inside the body (by the way - `if`, `elif`, `else` and `while` express the same thing)

Our next examples will be a bit more modest in the number of loop repetitions.

Take a look at the snippet below. Can you predict its output?

```python
for i in range(10):
    print("The value of i is currently", i)
```

Run the code to check if you were right.

Note:

- the loop has been executed ten times (it's the `range()` function's argument)
- the last control variable's value is `9` (not `10`, as it **starts from** `0`, not from `1`)
<hr>

The `range()` function invocation may be equipped with two arguments, not just one:

```python
for i in range(2, 8):
    print("The value of i is currently", i)
```

In this case, the first argument determines the initial (first) value of the control variable.

The last argument shows the first value the control variable will not be assigned.

> [!NOTE]
> the `range()` function **accepts only integers as its arguments**, and generates sequences of integers.

Can you guess the output of the program? Run it to check if you were right now, too.

The first value shown is `2` (taken from the `range()`'s first argument.)

The last is `7` (although the `range()`'s second argument is `8`).
<hr>

### More about the for loop and the range() function with three arguments

The `range()` function may also accept **three arguments** - take a look at the code in the editor.

The third argument is an **increment** - it's a value added to control the variable at every loop turn (as you may suspect, the **default value of the increment is 1**).

