### String operators - introduction

It's time to return to these two arithmetic operators: `+` and `*`.

We want to show you that they have a second function. They are able to do something more than just **add** and **multiply**.

We've seen them in action where their arguments are numbers (floats or integers, it doesn't matter).

Now we're going to show you that they can handle strings, too, albeit in a very specific way.
<hr>

### Concatenation

The `+` (plus) sign, when applied to two strings, becomes a **concatenation operator**:

`string + string`

It simply **concatenates** (glues) two strings into one. Of course, like its arithmetic sibling, it can be used more than once in one expression, and in such a context it behaves according to left-sided binding.

In contrast to its arithmetic sibling, the concatenation operator is **not commutative**, i.e., `"ab" + "ba"` is not the same as `"ba" + "ab"`.

Don't forget - if you want the `+` sign to be a **concatenator**, not an adder, you must ensure that **both its arguments are strings**.

You cannot mix types here.
<hr>

This simple program shows the `+` sign in its second use:

```python
fnam = input("May I have your first name, please? ")
lnam = input("May I have your last name, please? ")
print("Thank you.")
print("\nYour name is " + fnam + " " + lnam + ".")
```

> [!NOTE]
> using `+` to concatenate strings lets you construct the output in a more precise way than with a pure `print()` function, even if enriched with the `end=` and `sep=` keyword arguments.

Run the code and see if the output matches your predictions.

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>

```
May I have your first name, please? Jose
May I have your last name, please? Rizal
Thank you.

Your name is Jose Rizal.
```
</details>
<hr>

### Replication

The `*` (asterisk) sign, when applied to a string and number (or a number and string, as it remains commutative in this position) becomes a **replication operator**:

```
string * number
number * string
```

It replicates the string the same number of times specified by the number.

- `"James" * 3` gives `"JamesJamesJames"`
- `3 * "an"` gives `"ananan"`
- `5 * "2"` (or `"2" * 5`) gives `"22222"` (not `10`!)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A number less than or equal to zero produces an **empty string**.

This simple program "draws" a rectangle, making use of an old operator (`+`) in a new role:

```python
print("+" + 10 * "-" + "+")
print(("|" + " " * 10 + "|\n") * 5, end="")
print("+" + 10 * "-" + "+")
```

Note the way in which we've used the parentheses in the second line of the code.

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>

```
+----------+
|          |
|          |
|          |
|          |
|          |
+----------+
```
</details>

Try practicing to create other shapes or your own artwork!
