### The _try-except_ branch

In the Python world, there is a rule that says: _"It’s better to beg for forgiveness than to ask for permission"_.

Let's stop here for a moment. Don't get us wrong – we don't want you to apply the rule in your everyday life. Don't take anyone's car without permission in the hope that you can be so convincing that you will avoid conviction. The rule is about something else.

Actually, the rule reads: _"it's better to handle an error when it happens than to try to avoid it"_.

_"Okay," you may say now, 'but how should I beg for forgiveness when the program is terminated and there is nothing left that can be done?"_ This is where the **exception** comes on the scene.

Look at the code in the editor.

```python
try:
	# It's a place where
	# you can do something 
    # without asking for permission.
except:
	# It's a spot dedicated to 
    # solemnly begging for forgiveness.
```

You can see two branches here:

- first, starting with the `try` keyword – this is the place where you put the code you suspect is risky and may be terminated in case of error; note: this kind of error is called an **exception**, while the exception occurrence is called **raising** – we can say that an exception is (or was) raised;

- second, the part of the code starting with the `except` keyword is designed to handle the exception; it's up to you what you want to do here: you can clean up the mess or you can just sweep the problem under the carpet (although we would prefer the first solution).

So, we could say that these two blocks work like this:

- the `try` keyword marks the place where you try to do something without permission;
- the `except` keyword starts a location where you can show off your apology talents.

As you can see, this approach accepts errors (treats them as a normal part of the program's life) instead of escalating efforts to avoid errors at all.
<hr>

### The exception proves the rule

Let's rewrite the code to adopt the Python approach to life:

```python
try:
    value = int(input('Enter a natural number: '))
    print('The reciprocal of', value, 'is', 1/value)        
except:
    print('I do not know what to do.')
```

Let us summarize what we talked about:

- any part of the code placed between `try` and `except` is executed in a very special way – any error which occurs here **won't terminate program execution**. Instead, the control will immediately jump to the first line situated after the `except` keyword, and no other part of the `try` branch is executed;
- when either the `try` block or the `except` block is executed successfully, the control returns to the normal path of execution, and any code located beyond in the source file is executed as if nothing happened.

Now we want to ask you an innocent question: is `ValueError` the only way the control could fall into the `except` branch?

Analyze the code carefully and think over your answer!
