### Floats

Now it's time to talk about another type, which is designed to represent and to store the numbers that (as a mathematician would say) have a **non-empty decimal fraction**.

They are the numbers that have (or may have) a fractional part after the decimal point, and although such a definition is very poor, it's certainly sufficient for what we wish to discuss.

Whenever we use a term like _two and a half_ or _minus zero point four_, we think of numbers which the computer considers **floating-point** numbers:

```shell
2.5
-0.4
```

> [!NOTE]
> _two and a half_ looks normal when you write it in a program, although if your native language prefers to use a comma instead of a point in the number, you should ensure that your **number doesn't contain any commas** at all.

Python will not accept that, or (in very rare but possible cases) may misunderstand your intentions, as the comma itself has its own reserved meaning in Python.

If you want to use just a value of two and a half, you should write it as shown above. Note once again - there is a point between 2 and 5 - not a comma.

As you can probably imagine, the value of zero point four could be written in Python as:
`0.4`

But don't forget this simple rule - you can omit zero when it is the only digit in front of or after the decimal point.

In essence, you can write the value `0.4` as:
`.4`

For example: the value of `4.0` could be written as:
`4.`

This will change neither its type nor its value.
<hr>

### Ints vs. floats

The decimal point is essentially important in recognizing floating-point numbers in Python.

Look at these two numbers:

```python
4
4.0
```

You may think that they are exactly the same, but Python sees them in a completely different way.

`4` is an **integer** number, whereas `4.0` is a **floating-point** number.

The point is what makes a float.

On the other hand, it's not only points that make a float. You can also use the letter `e`.

When you want to use any numbers that are very large or very small, you can use **scientific notation**.

Take, for example, the speed of light, expressed in _meters per second_. Written directly it would look like this: `300000000`.

To avoid writing out so many zeros, physics textbooks use an abbreviated form, which you have probably already seen: `3 x 10<sup>8</sup>`.

It reads: three times ten to the power of eight.

In Python, the same effect is achieved in a slightly different way - take a look:
`3E8`

The letter `E` (you can also use the lower-case letter `e` - it comes from the word **exponent**) is a concise record of the phrase _times ten to the power of_.

Note:

- the **exponent** (the value after the _E_) has to be an integer;
- the **base** (the value in front of the _E_) may be an integer.
<hr>

### Coding floats

Let's see how this convention is used to record numbers that are very small (in the sense of their absolute value, which is close to zero).

A physical constant called _Planck's constant_ (and denoted as _h_), according to the textbooks, has the value of: **6.62607 x 10<sup>-34</sup>**.

If you would like to use it in a program, you should write it this way:
`6.62607E-34`

> [!NOTE]
> the fact that you've chosen one of the possible forms of coding float values doesn't mean that Python will present it the same way.

Python may sometimes choose **different notation** than you.

For example, let's say you've decided to use the following float literal:
`0.0000000000000000000001`

When you run this literal through Python:

```python
print(0.0000000000000000000001)
```

this is the result:
`1e-22`
