### How the function interacts with its arguments

Now let's find out how the function interacts with its arguments.

The code in the editor should teach you something. As you can see, the function changes the value of its parameter. Does the change affect the argument?

```python
def my_function(n):
    print("I got", n)
    n += 1
    print("I have", n)


var = 1
my_function(var)
print(var)
```

Run the program and check.

The code's output is:

```
I got 1
I have 2
1
```

The conclusion is obvious - **changing the parameter's value doesn't propagate outside the function** (in any case, not when the variable is a scalar, like in the example).

This also means that a function receives the **argument's value**, not the argument itself. This is true for scalars.

Is it worth checking how it works with lists (do you recall the peculiarities of assigning list slices versus assigning lists as a whole?).
<hr>

The following example will shed some light on the issue:

```python
def my_function(my_list_1):
    print("Print #1:", my_list_1)
    print("Print #2:", my_list_2)
    my_list_1 = [0, 1]
    print("Print #3:", my_list_1)
    print("Print #4:", my_list_2)


my_list_2 = [2, 3]
my_function(my_list_2)
print("Print #5:", my_list_2)
```

The code's output is:

```
Print #1: [2, 3]
Print #2: [2, 3]
Print #3: [0, 1]
Print #4: [2, 3]
Print #5: [2, 3]
```

It seems that the former rule still works.
<hr>

Finally, can you see the difference in the example below:

```python
def my_function(my_list_1):
    print("Print #1:", my_list_1)
    print("Print #2:", my_list_2)
    del my_list_1[0]  # Pay attention to this line.
    print("Print #3:", my_list_1)
    print("Print #4:", my_list_2)


my_list_2 = [2, 3]
my_function(my_list_2)
print("Print #5:", my_list_2)
```

We don't change the value of the parameter `my_list_1` (we already know it will not affect the argument), but instead modify the list identified by it.

The output may be surprising. Run the code and check:

```
Print #1: [2, 3]
Print #2: [2, 3]
Print #3: [3]
Print #4: [3]
Print #5: [3]
```

Can you explain it?

Let's try:

- if the argument is a list, then changing the value of the corresponding parameter doesn't affect the list (remember: variables containing lists are stored in a different way than scalars),
- but if you change a list identified by the parameter (note: the list, not the parameter!), the list will reflect the change.

(Gotcha moment)

It's time to write some example functions. You'll do that in the next section.
