### Functions and scopes

Let's start with a definition:

The **scope of a name** (e.g., a variable name) is the part of a code where the name is properly recognizable.

For example, the scope of a function's parameter is the function itself. The parameter is inaccessible outside the function.


Let's check it. Look at the code in the editor. What will happen when you run it?

```python
def scope_test():
    x = 123

scope_test()
print(x)
```

The program will fail when run. The error message will read:

`NameError: name 'x' is not defined`

This is to be expected.

We're going to conduct some experiments with you to show you how Python constructs scopes, and how you can use its habits to your benefit.
<hr>

### Functions and scopes: continued

Let's start by checking whether or not a variable created outside any function is visible inside the functions. In other words, does a variable's name propagate into a function's body?

Look at the code in the editor. Our guinea pig is there.

```python
def my_function():
    print("Do I know that variable?", var)

var = 1
my_function()
print(var)
```

The result of the test is positive - the code outputs:

```
Do I know that variable? 1
1
```

The answer is: **a variable existing outside a function has a scope inside the functions' bodies**.

This rule has a very important exception. Let's try to find it.

Let's make a small change to the code:

```python
def my_function():
    var = 2
    print("Do I know that variable?", var)

var = 1
my_function()
print(var)
```

The result has changed, too - the code produces a slightly different output now:

```
Do I know that variable? 2
1
```

What's happened?

- the `var` variable created inside the function is not the same as when defined outside it - it seems that there two different variables of the same name;
- moreover, the function's variable shadows the variable coming from the outside world.

We can make the previous rule more precise and adequate:

**A variable existing outside a function has a scope inside the functions' bodies, excluding those of them which define a variable of the same name.**

It also means that the scope of a variable existing outside a function is supported only when getting its value (reading). Assigning a value forces the creation of the function's own variable.

(Gotcha moment)

Make sure you understand this well and carry out your own experiments.
