### Creating Variables

What can you put inside a variable?

Anything.

You can use a variable to store any value of any of the already presented kinds, and many more of the ones we haven't shown you yet.

The value of a variable is what you have put into it. It can vary as often as you need or want. It can be an integer one moment, and a float a moment later, eventually becoming a string.

Let's talk now about two important things - **how variables are created**, and **how to put values inside them** (or rather - how to give or **pass values** to them).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **A variable comes into existence as a result of assigning a value to it**. Unlike in other languages, you don't need to declare it in any special way.<br><br>
> If you assign any value to a nonexistent variable, the variable will be **automatically created**. You don't need to do anything else.<br><br>
> The creation (or otherwise - its syntax) is extremely simple: **just use the name of the desired variable, then the equal sign (=) and the value you want to put into the variable**.

Take a look at the snippet:

```python
var = 1
print(var)
```

It consists of two simple instructions:

- The first of them creates a variable named `var`, and assigns a literal with an integer value equal to `1`.
- The second prints the value of the newly created variable to the console.

Note: `print()` has yet another side to it - it can handle variables too. Do you know what the output of the snippet will be?
<details>
<summary>Check</summary>
  
`1`
</details>
<hr>

### Using variables

You're allowed to use as many variable declarations as you need to achieve your goal, like this:

```python
var = 1
account_balance = 1000.0
client_name = 'John Doe'
print(var, account_balance, client_name)
print(var)
```

You're **not allowed to use a variable which doesn't exist** (in other words, a variable that was not assigned a value).

This example will **cause an error**:

```python
var = 1
print(Var)
```

We've tried to use a variable named `Var`, which doesn't have any value (note: `var` and `Var` are different entities, and have nothing in common as far as Python's concerned).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You can use the `print()` function and combine text and variables using the `+` operator to output strings and variables, e.g.:
> ```python
> var = "3.8.5"
> print("Python version: " + var)
> ```

Can you guess the output of the snippet above?

<details>
<summary>Check</summary>
  
`Python version: 3.8.5`
</details>
<hr>

### Assigning a new value to an already existing variable

How do you assign a new value to an already created variable? In the same way. You just need to use the equal sign.

The equal sign is in fact an **assignment operator**. Although this may sound strange, the operator has a simple syntax and unambiguous interpretation.

It assigns the value of its right argument to the left, while the right argument may be an arbitrarily complex expression involving literals, operators and already defined variables.

Look at the code below:

```python
var = 1
print(var)
var = var + 1
print(var)
```

The code sends two lines to the console:

```shell
1
2
```

The first line of the snippet **creates a new variable** named `var` and assigns `1` to it.

The statement reads: assign a value of `1` to a variable named `var`.

We can say it shorter: assign `1` to `var`.

Some prefer to read such a statement as: `var` becomes `1`.

The third line **assigns the same variable with the new value** taken from the variable itself, summed with `1`. Seeing a record like that, a mathematician would probably protest - no value may be equal to itself plus one. This is a contradiction. But Python treats the sign `=` not as _equal_ to, but as _assign a value_.

So how do you read such a record in the program?

Take the current value of the variable `var`, add `1` to it and store the result in the variable `var`.

In effect, the value of variable `var` has been **incremented** by one, which has nothing to do with comparing the variable with any value.

Do you know what the output of the following snippet will be?

```python
var = 100
var = 200 + 300
print(var)
```

`500` - why? Well, first, the `var` variable is created and assigned a value of 100. Then, the same variable is assigned a new value: the result of adding 200 to 300, which is 500.
